
Node Js:- Node.js is an open source,cross plateform runtime environment and library to run application 
outside the client browser It is use to create server side web application. in terminal when i 
type node --version then you can check what is version of Node.Js.



Express Js:-Express is a flexible Node.js web application framework that provides a wide set features
to develop web and mobile applications.



Author:-Ryan Dahl is the author of Node.js 



NPM:- Javascript operates in a runtime environment with the help of node js having its own package
manager, this package manager is called NPM.in terminal when i type npm --version then you can 
check what is version of npm



CLI:-command-line interface



which Language Node Js is written:- Node.js shows compatibility with three types of language 
C,C++ and JavaScript



V8 Engine:- In 2008 when google chrome was launched time chrome also introduced its project of
the V8 engine. It is an open-source network that can be written in the c++ language.



Module:-Modulus is various commands used in node js to perform tasks like addition, subtraction,
division, multiplication, etc. Ins short you can do maths in js using modulus.



Module.exports:-The module. exports is a default application that can be found in every js 
file of Node js.


package.Json:-package.json file is the heart of Node.js system. It is the manifest file of 
any Node.js project and contains the metadata of the project. The package.json file is the 
essential part to understand, learn and work with the Node.js. It is the first step to learn 
about development in Node.js.


HTTP:- The Hypertext Transfer Protocol is provide communications between clients and servers.


HTTP Methods:-Different Types of http methods available here like get,post,put,delete etc..


Get Method:-GET is used to request data from a specified resource.


Post Method:-POST is used to send data to a server to create/update a resource.


Path Params:-The path parameter is a variable that allows the user to add a parameter in his
resource point mins API endpoint whose value can be changed. Path parameters offer a unique
opportunity for the user to control the representations of resources.


Query Params:-The query parameter is the variable whose value is passed in the URL in the form 
of key-value pair at the end of the URL after a question mark (?).


LocalHost:-localhost is a special hostname that almost always resolves to 127.0. 0.1


Router:-A Router is a networking device that forwards data packets between computer networks.


Port Number:-Port number is the part of the addressing information used to identify the senders
and receivers of messages in computer networking.default port number we're using 3000